Python Basics

Objective: To get students started with Python syntax.

Task:
In this assignment, you will practice the fundamentals of Python programming by writing a Python program that covers various basic concepts. Your program should include variable declarations, basic arithmetic operations, the use of the print statement, and conditional statements (if-else) to handle user input.

Instructions:

Open your preferred text editor or integrated development environment (IDE) for Python.

Create a Python program that does the following:

a. Declare variables of different data types:

A string variable (e.g., name) containing your name.
An integer variable (e.g., age) with your age.
A float variable (e.g., height) with your height in meters.
Another integer variable (e.g., lucky_number) with a number of your choice.
Example variable declarations:


name = "John Doe"
age = 25
height = 1.75
lucky_number = 7

b. Perform basic arithmetic operations using these variables:

Calculate your birth year by subtracting your age from the current year (you can assume the current year is 2023).
Calculate your age in months (considering 12 months in a year).
Calculate your age in days (considering an average of 365 days in a year).
Calculate the result of adding your age and your lucky number.
c. Use conditional statements (if-else) to handle user input:

Prompt the user to enter their favorite color.
If the color matches your favorite color (you can choose any color you like), display a message like "We both like [favorite_color]!" Otherwise, display a message like "Our favorite colors are different."
Display the results of the calculations and conditional statements using the print() function. Include clear and informative output messages.

Save your Python program with an appropriate filename, such as "python_basics_assignment.py."

Run your Python program to verify that it executes correctly and produces the expected results.

Submission:

After completing the assignment, save your Python program file (e.g., python_basics_assignment.py).

Create a ZIP file containing your Python program file and any additional files if necessary.

Upload the ZIP file to the course's assignment submission portal.

Evaluation Criteria:

Successful execution of the program: Does the program run without errors?
Proper use of variables and data types.
Correctness of calculations and results.
Proper implementation of conditional statements (if-else).
Clear and informative output messages.
Adherence to the submission instructions.