Working with Lists and Loops

Objective: To practice working with Python lists and loops.

Task:
In this assignment, you will practice your skills in working with Python lists and loops. You are required to write a Python program that performs operations on lists. For example, you can calculate the sum, average, or find the maximum and minimum values of a list of numbers using loops.

Instructions:

Open your preferred text editor or integrated development environment (IDE) for Python.

Create a Python program that does the following:

a. Define a list of numbers (e.g., integers or floats). You can choose the size and values of the list.

Example list definition:


numbers = [5, 12, 8, 17, 3, 21]


b. Implement loops to perform the following operations on the list:

Calculate the sum of all the numbers in the list.
Calculate the average (mean) of the numbers in the list.
Find the maximum value in the list.
Find the minimum value in the list.
You should use separate loops for each operation.

Example:


# Calculate the sum
total = 0
for number in numbers:
    total += number


c. Display the results of each operation to the user using the print() function. Include clear and informative output messages.

Test your Python program with different lists of numbers to ensure it calculates the sum, average, maximum, and minimum correctly.

Save your Python program with an appropriate filename, such as "list_operations.py."

Run your Python program to verify that it executes correctly and produces the expected results.

Submission:

After completing the assignment, save your Python program file (e.g., list_operations.py).

Create a ZIP file containing your Python program file and any additional files if necessary.

Upload the ZIP file to the course's assignment submission portal.

Evaluation Criteria:

Successful execution of the program: Does the program run without errors?
Proper use of loops to perform list operations.
Correctness of calculations for sum, average, maximum, and minimum values.
Clear and informative output messages.
Adherence to the submission instructions.