Hello, World! in Python

Objective: To introduce students to basic programming syntax and familiarize them with writing and running Python code.

Task:
Your task for this assignment is to write a simple Python program that prints "Hello, World!" to the console. This is a classic introductory exercise that will help you become comfortable with the basic syntax of Python and the process of writing and running code.

Instructions:

Set up your development environment: If you haven't already, install Python on your computer. You can download Python from the official website (https://www.python.org/downloads/). Follow the installation instructions for your operating system.

Open a text editor or an integrated development environment (IDE) of your choice. Some popular choices include Visual Studio Code, PyCharm, or even a simple text editor like Notepad (on Windows) or Nano (on Linux).

Write a Python program that does the following:

Prints the text "Hello, World!" to the console.
You can use the print() function in Python to display text on the console.
Save your Python program with an appropriate filename and the ".py" extension. For example, you can name it "hello_world.py".

Open your computer's terminal or command prompt and navigate to the directory where you saved your Python program.

Run your Python program by entering the following command in the terminal:


python hello_world.py

Replace "hello_world.py" with the actual name of your Python file if it's different.

Verify that your program prints "Hello, World!" to the console.

Submission:

After completing the assignment, create a ZIP file containing your Python program file (e.g., hello_world.py) and any additional files if necessary.

Upload the ZIP file to the course's assignment submission portal.

Evaluation Criteria:

Successful execution of the program: Does the program run without errors?
Correctness: Does the program print "Hello, World!" to the console?
Proper code formatting and organization.
Adherence to the submission instructions.