Variables and Data Types in Python

Objective: To understand variables and data types in Python.

Task:
In this assignment, you will explore variables and data types in Python. You are required to create a Python program that declares variables of different data types, such as strings, numbers, and booleans, and perform various operations on these variables.

Instructions:

Open your preferred text editor or integrated development environment (IDE) for Python.

Create a Python program that does the following:

Declare variables of different data types:
A string variable (e.g., name) containing your name.
Two integer variables (e.g., age and birth_year) with your age and birth year.
A float variable (e.g., height) with your height in meters.
A boolean variable (e.g., is_student) indicating whether you are a student (True or False).
Example:


name = "John Doe"
age = 25
birth_year = 1998
height = 1.75
is_student = True

Perform the following operations using these variables:

Concatenate your name with the string " is an amazing Python developer!" and store the result in a new variable.
Calculate the current year (you can assume it's the year 2023) and store it in a variable.
Calculate your approximate age by subtracting your birth year from the current year.
Calculate the sum, difference, product, and division of your age and height (in meters).
Print the results of each operation using the print() function. Make sure to include clear and informative output messages.

Save your Python program with an appropriate filename, such as "variables_and_data_types.py."

Run your Python program to verify that it executes correctly and produces the expected results.

Submission:

After completing the assignment, create a ZIP file containing your Python program file (e.g., variables_and_data_types.py) and any additional files if necessary.

Upload the ZIP file to the course's assignment submission portal.

Evaluation Criteria:

Successful execution of the program: Does the program run without errors?
Proper use of variables and data types.
Correctness of calculations and operations.
Clear and informative output messages.
Adherence to the submission instructions.



